http is  protocol used by layer 7 devices to talk to each other (client - server)

what happens is:
1. url request by the client is resolved by dns
2. after getting the ip address of the url, before the request reaches the server
3. it is blocked by a firewall to prevent blocked domains from entering
4. once it reaches the erver it is intercepted by Nginx (proxy) in order to i dont know
5. finally it reaches AWS ec2 serer 
6. aws ec2 server returns it back to the client 

the message between cleint and server has two types: 
1. Requeset message 
2. Response message

both of them have the same parts: 
1. HTTP Method (what is the operation being requested | what is the response to the operation requested)
2. HTTP Header (contains metadata about the request/response. There are different types of http headers:
    - general : used for i dont know
    -         : used for behavior)
3. Body (i dont know | server: the information being requested )

CORS Workflow
- aka cross origin something. Basically it allows you to communicate with a server of different domain? 
- it has two messages: pre-flight (which is like a reconnaisance i dont know for what) and a simple request 
- this workflow also includes http caching and negotiation. In http caching, if a client requests something from a server,
  it firsts checks itself if it already has the service in request in its cache, therefore there will be noresponse message
  An http negotiation is i dont know 
- for http requests/response that are too large. HTTP request, breaks the request into chunks and sends in one by one to the server
   same concept for response, it sends the rsponse in stream-based chunks to the client


HTTP Option 
- Forgot

HTTP METHODS
- Post (Create)
- Put (Update whole)
- Patch (Update only a specific part)
- Get (Read)

Idempotent vs Non-Idempotent
- when i perform an htpp method (will the data structure remain the same? If yes, idempotent, otherwise, non-idempotent)



# Document Object Model (DOM)
HTML Document is static and has no interactivity that programming languages provide. 
So, what the Web Browser does are two things:

1. It loads the static HTML File into a shape of a tree

2. It provides programming languages, the Document Object Model (DOM) API so that it can 
treat each node of the tree as an object and manipulate its content, structure, and style



The Object Tree looks like this:

WINDOW
    Document
        Elements
            Attributes
            Text



where each node of the tree has various interfaces assigned to it which are useful in how we define the methods and properties for it 


#Problem
The website is in Japanese, and I can't understand it.

hashtag#Solution
HTTP Content Negotiation is where the client (browser) tells the server its preferred resource version by sending HTTP headers such as:

1. Content type (Accept) : HTML, JSON, XML
2. Language (Accept-Language): English (en), Japanese (ja), Spanish (es)
3. Compression (Accept-Encoding): Gzip, Brotli, Deflate

The server examines if it has the representation the client wants, if it has a matching version, it sends it back. 

For example:
Client: Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.9

This asks the server, "I prefer the English version, do you have that?"

Furthermore, HTTP Compression shrink big HTML, CSS, JS, and other files before sending them over the network. The browser then automatically decompresses them after download. 

Benfits:
✅ Increased page load speed
✅ Reduced bandwidth
✅ Better search engine optimization (SEO) 


BACKEND FUNDAMENTALS - HTTP

#Problem 
You are building the frontend of a cafe's inventory system. A barista just sold a large latte, and your client application needs to tell the server to deduct milk from the inventory management system. How do ensure that this request reaches the correct backend destination? 


#Solution
Routing - how the request is received, matched, executed, and returned 

Intent = HTTP Methods (GET, POST, PUT, etc) 
Where = pathname (/users/123) 
Intent (GET/) + Where(/users/123) = Route (GET/users/123) 

Process:
1. Receive & Match - the client sends the request (route) and is received in the backend. In the backend, the handler or controller checks the route and checks it against a routing table.
2. Execute & Return - If it finds a matching route, the handler will execute the backend logic (like talking to a database to fetch a user), and then its final job is to send a response (like a JSON object or an HTML page) back to the client.

Different types of Routing
1. Static - a fixed, exact match (e.g. GET/users) 
2. Dynamic 
- path parameter - has a variable inside the route in place of value (e.g. GET/users/:id) 
- query parameter - has a query inside the route where the client will supply the key-value pair after the '?'. It is useful in filtering, searching, and sorting (e.g GET/users?role=admin&active=true)
3. Nested route - it is a hierarchical route for what you want to access. "I want to see user 123's 5th post (e.g. GET/users/123/post/5)
4. Catch-All route - if a route doesn't match any of the routing table, it falls back to the catch-all route "/*" returning a non-match response 
5. Version Routing - when new updates come in, developers create a new version route (e.g., GET /v2/users) while keeping GET /v1/users alive for older clients.



